Identity basis (#282)
flatironinstitute/nemos: docs/how_to_guide/custom_predictors.md

---
jupytext:
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.16.4
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

(custom-features)=

> # Custom Features

Reviewer: I don't think "custom" is the right word here, but I don't have a better one.

Author: Precomputed?

## Incorporating Custom Features into GLM Design

In some cases, your data may contain features that are not directly computable through the available bases in NeMoS, for instance a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of high-dimensional signals. 
The `IdentityEval` basis allows you to incorporate these precomputed features into the model design, and combine them with other predictors through basis composition.

For example, let's assume that you want to compute a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of some signals, and use 

> the first 2 Principal Components (PCs) as GLM features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the first 2 Principal Components as GLM features. 
```

> Currently, NeMoS doesn't provide a PCA basis, but you can compute the PCs in `sklearn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, NeMoS doesn't provide a PCA basis, but you can compute the principle components in `sklearn`.
```

```{code-cell}
import numpy as np
from sklearn.decomposition import PCA

n_samples = 100
n_signals = 10

# generate some random signals
high_dim_singals = np.random.randn(n_samples, n_signals)

# generate some counts
counts = np.random.poisson(size=n_samples)

# compute the first 2 pcs
pcs = PCA(2).fit_transform(high_dim_singals)

```

> Now, let's see how to use the `IdentityEval` basis to model jointly the PCs and a spike history filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's see how to use the `IdentityEval` basis to model jointly the principle components and a spike history filter.
```

```{code-cell}
import nemos as nmo

# create a composite basis 
pc_basis = nmo.basis.IdentityEval()
history_basis = nmo.basis.RaisedCosineLogConv(3, window_size=10)
composite_basis = pc_basis + history_basis

# create the model design

> X = composite_basis.compute_features(pcs, counts)

Reviewer: I feel like we should visualize this, or at least show the shape?

Author: I think i simulated only a 1D array actually
